Previously on Fringe...
Clearly I'm in
the wrong place,
and all the people
that I know and love are...
Somewhere else.
You were showing up
in my dreams.
How is that possible when
I'd never even seen you before?
In the dreams,
did you...
feel like you knew me?
Did you feel anything?
You were a stranger,
so what would I feel?
His name is
David Robert Jones.
He was looking for a mineral
named amphilocite.
If you know how
to process it properly,
it can be used
as a power source.
With this stuff, you get
a lot of bang for your buck.
Well, how much bang
are we talking?
Enough to blow a hole
in the Universe.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
I love you.
Do you love me?
I do.
Then tell me.
I want to hear you say it.
I love you.
Hey. It's Peter.
I'm sorry. I know it's early.
Did I wake you?
Uh, no, that's okay.
What's up?
Me and Walter
for the last 24 hours.
We've been working
on the machine.
Did you make
any progress?
Yes. I think we
had a breakthrough.
Could be the first step
towards getting me back home,
but...
But...
There's something
I need your help with.
Gently, gently...
The trick is to ensure
optimal heat distribution...
While not allowing
the mixture to separate.
Ah, Olivia,
you're just in time.
What is that smell?
Walter is creating
a new breakfast cocktail--
hot cinnamon roll.
Did you know
that the cocktail
was historically conceived
as a morning beverage?
The etymology of the word
itself, "cocktail,"
comes from
the magnificent rooster,
who announces the dawn
of each day.
What's in it?
Oh, boy.
It's mostly cinnamon schnapps
and butter, but...
Right now
it's mostly butter.
It needs more butter.
You okay?
Yeah, I'm just a little bit
tired--that's all.
Uh, what did you
need my help with?
Peter and I
have completed
the biomechanical interface
for the machine.
The device is
uniquely calibrated
to work only
with Peter's genetic profile.
It uses an organic interface
to transcode
Peter's neural impulses
into command directives.
Just watch.
So you're able
to control the machine
with your thoughts
through this?
That's how I was able to do it
back in my timeline.
And what, you just click
your heels and think of home?
Well, we haven't quite
worked out how that works yet,
but that's kind of
how I ended up here in Oz
in the first place,
so in theory, yeah.
We won't know for sure
until we're able to test
the prototype
on the machine itself.
Which would require
Broyles' authorization.
Now I know why I'm here.
You don't mind
asking him, do you?
No, of course not.
I'll see what I can do.
♪ I... ♪
♪ I have crazy dreams ♪
Come on.
Yeah,
I can't explain it.
Another one here.
Just stopped working.
Oh, yeah.
Just the lights went out,
and then...just stopped.
Hey, check it out!
Do you see that?
What is that?
Over there.
We got another...
What the hell?
Whoa.
Oh.
Got to be kidding me.
Oh...
Honey, come here.
Come here. Come here.
Yeah.
Can't believe it.
You got service?
Does anyone
have cell reception?
Is your phone working?
Plane just went down.
It might now.
We should call...
♪ Fringe 4x12 ♪
Welcome to Westfield
Original Air Date on February 10, 2012
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
I'll get Walter online.
Okay.
Welcome to Vermont.
Thanks.
So what brings us here?
Atlantic 591
was passing overhead
when a disturbance
occurred mid-flight.
It appears their electrical
and hydraulic systems failed.
Walter?
I'm sorry.
I can't seem to reach him.
Any survivors?
None. NTSB is currently
working the crash site
about two miles south of here.
Walter...
But we think whatever
caused the crash
originated
in this location.
On what basis?
Approximately
three hours ago,
every vehicle
on this stretch of highway
inexplicably lost power.
Well, it could be
some sort of interference.
Are there any high-frequency
radio towers around?
None.
That wouldn't explain
some of the stranger events
described by witnesses.
Objects suspended
in midair...
Walter,
are you getting this?
Can you hear me?
Walter...
For God's sake, woman,
lower your decibels.
You're here,
in person.
I thought it was
a nice day for a drive.
Well, let's get started,
shall we?
Well done convincing him
to leave the lab.
Don't look at me.
This was his idea.
I guess he finally got
tired of being caged up.
Yeah, it's not
just that.
I mean, he's been much more
open lately, somehow.
Peter!
Look at this.
Walter,
what are you doing?
This car belongs
to someone.
Just watch.
Huh.
It's magnetized.
As I suspected--
I didn't think
that those levitating effects
that the witnesses
described
were the result
of a change in gravity.
On the contrary, it seems
that for a brief moment,
the electromagnetic force
in this area was increased
dramatically.
Which is why all of the cars'
electrical systems failed...
And probably
the plane's as well.
And it was
strong enough...
to leave a residual
magnetic force
in all metal objects
in the vicinity.
Do you have any idea
what caused it?
No. Not yet.
I'll--I'll need to take
some samples
before I can develop
a proper theory.
Um, but I-I-I will require
some of the plane's wreckage
and the black box.
Go ahead and collect
whatever evidence you need here.
Agent Farnsworth and I
will coordinate with NTSB
to take custody
of the wreckage and the bodies.
Peter...
While I'm collecting
the samples,
just down the road,
I saw a sign for a place
that serves delicious
homemade rhubarb pie.
Who's hungry?
There.
"The best in Westfield."
Do you see?
Damn it.
What's up?
I can't get a signal.
I'm gonna hit that pay phone
on the corner,
see if I can get
an E.T.A. from Astrid.
We may have to get
the rhubarb to go.
All right. We'll meet you in there.
Okay.
Come on in out of the cold,
gentlemen.
Have a seat.
What can I get for you?
Your largest slice
of rhubarb pie
and coffee, please.
- All right. And for you?
- Just the bathroom.
Uh, it's in the back there--
first door on your right.
Thanks.
So where you folks from?
Boston.
Ah, it's a lovely city.
Got an Uncle
out in Somerville.
Your first time
in Vermont?
Are we in Vermont?
I had no idea.
- What, you folks lost?
-Not that I'm aware of.
Well, how does a man drive all
the way from Boston to Vermont
and not even know
that he's there?
Oh, I'm not
allowed to drive.
I haven't
renewed my license
since I got out
of the mental institution.
You know what?
I like you.
Pie's on the house.
Oh. Thank you.
Hey.
Looks like June
got you some coffee.
How's your evening going?
Excellent.
And yours?
Just fine.
So what can I get for you?
Pardon?
What do you
want to order?
But...
But I ordered a moment ago.
This is my busiest shift.
Do you want
to order or not?
But I did.
I-I ordered rhubarb pie.
And you even offered
to give it to me free of charge.
Are you trying
to steal food?
No, of course not.
Nobody steals from me.
Not you, not Cliff,
nobody.
You hear me, old man?
I hear you.
I hear you perfectly well.
Oh.
Still got to
get you that pie.
Must've forgot.
I'm sorry about that.
Please...
And there you go.
Anything else
I can get for you?
No.
Thank you very much.
You're very welcome.
Yaah!
Whaa!
Peter! Peter!
Walter!
Rraah!
Peter...
I'm okay.
What--what happened?
I don't know, but there's
a guy in the back room.
I think the cook attacked him.
He's pretty beat up.
Thank you.
Come on.
Pulse pressure's weak...
Probably as a result
of the puncture in the arm.
An inch to the right,
it would've hit
his brachial artery.
I just found another body
behind the counter.
- What are you thinking, serial killer?
- I don't know.
I mean, I think there's
something off
about this entire town.
Meaning what?
The whole place
is deserted.
I can't get a cell signal.
All the phone lines are down.
Do I take that to mean that
we can't call for an ambulance?
What, you can't treat
him here?
Well, he's lost
too much blood.
Unless he is
administered fluid,
resuscitation,
and a blood transfusion
immediately,
he may not make it.
Well, the nearest hospital
is 20 miles away.
Then let's get movin'.
Grab his feet.
Where am I?
You've sustained
some injuries.
We're going to get you
to a hospital.
No.
No, we can't leave.
We--we can't leave.
You're going
to be all right.
Stay with us.
What's your name?
Cliff.
Cliff Hayes.
Did you see that?
Yeah,
"Welcome to Westfield."
Y-you must've gotten
turned around someplace.
Yeah, I guess so.
You just got to stay
on the main road.
It takes you right back
to the highway.
Yeah, I-I thought I did.
What the hell
is going on here?
That's not possible.
We can't leave.
I think
our friend's right.
We're trapped here.
Hello?
FBI.
Anyone here?
Put him down here,
Peter.
His pulse
is dropping.
Start the blood transfusion
immediately.
With what,
Walter?
Uh, see if you can find
a first aid kit.
There might be
an I.V.
I'm "O" negative,
so I can donate.
Okay, the phones
are out here too.
Walter,
why can't we leave?
Do you think
it's got something to do
with what happened
on the highway?
I'm not sure.
I've seen this
once before.
Where?
Brigadoon.
The musical.
Magical town in the forest
where no one can leave.
Of course, that quaint
Scottish village
was more hospitable
than our present locale.
Come on, Walter.
I haven't formed
a hypothesis at the moment.
My concern is keeping
this man alive.
Found an I.V. kit.
Good.
Put pressure here.
Prepare two needles.
We're not safe here.
This town...
Everyone's crazy.
It started
three nights ago.
My sister woke us up.
She was frantic.
She was so scared.
A man had broken
into her house.
I tried calling the sheriff,
but the phones were down,
so I went over.
When I got there,
I found...
Her husband
in the bedroom...
Shot in the head...
Point-blank.
The intruder killed him?
Not the intruder.
Her.
She said she'd never seen him
before in her life.
They'd been married
for 18 years.
So the effects
are amnesic?
Not exactly.
She was delusional,
she was talking about people
she'd never met...
Things she'd
never done...
Children
she didn't have.
It was
as if she was...
having memories,
all of a sudden,
from someone else's life.
The symptoms
you're describing--
it resembles
schizophrenia.
I know it well.
Except it
wasn't just her.
It was everyone.
So how can
an entire town
turn schizophrenic
overnight?
Some sort
of biological contagion?
Maybe a virus that affects
the human brain?
A virus doesn't explain
why we drive out
one side of town
and right in the other.
Oh, this is
something else.
What else can you tell us
about the symptoms?
Most got sick
right away.
Others took longer,
like, hours, a day.
But it always started
the same way.
First, confusion,
forgetting things...
Tremors.
Some of them
became paranoid.
Others turned violent.
Like our friend
at the diner.
A few of us
who are immune
are holed up
at the high school.
Including my wife
and daughter.
That's why I went to the diner,
to get them food.
They need supplies.
But what they need
most of all is hope.
Knowing that the FBI is here
might give them that.
All right, we need to find
a way to contact Broyles
and let him know
what's going on here.
I did find some radios
out back.
I could try
to send out a signal,
but I'm gonna need
an elevated place
with a clear line of sight and
something to boost the power.
There is a--
an emergency generator
at the high school.
What do you think?
I think we're gonna need
a few things first.
You know, I think
there's a military base
about 50 miles
from here.
You think the army's
involved in this?
I mean, something of this
magnitude--a whole town?
Perhaps it was a military
experiment gone wrong,
like that case
we caught in Edina.
Where's Edina?
Uh, upstate New York.
Remember, the whole town's
population was disfigured
from the military
experiment?
We never had
such a case.
I investigated
a case in Edina
with my Walter
and my Olivia.
Oh, right.
Right, well,
I must've--
I must've read it
in your debrief.
Oh, uh, Peter, now,
now, I don't consider myself
to be a violent man...
Per se,
but given the danger of our,
uh, present predicament,
I think it would be best
if I had one of those.
Pepper spray?
Just remember
it shoots that way.
You ever use a gun?
I'm a teacher.
Okay, red button,
safety.
Come on.
Okay,
let's go.
What's that?
W--
shh, shh.
You guys hear that?
We got to get
out of this town.
Come on.
It won't start.
The increase
in electromagnetism
that caused the cars
to lose power on the highway
must be present
in this town too.
Well, it was working
when we pulled in.
Well, the effect
must be intermittent.
We can wait,
but we have no idea
how long
it will last.
I see the resemblance.
Pardon?
Agent Dunham said his name
is Bishop, like yours.
He's your son,
isn't he?
In a fashion, yes,
you could say that.
You all right?
Yeah.
It's just--
my arm won't stop shaking.
That's all.
Whoa, whoa.
What's the matter?
No, I'm okay.
It's just--
I'm just a little bit dizzy.
You need some water?
Oh, Peter, I don't know
how to explain it,
but that feels like
there was somebody else
in my, uh--
in my head.
Here...
Take this.
I-I-I'm scared that--
that what's happening
to the other people in this town
is happening to me.
Open up.
It's Cliff.
Cliff.
Who are they?
They're FBI,
Brian.
I'll explain
inside.
I thought
you were dead.
What happened?
Long story.
How many people
do you have here?
12 of us made it.
Eleven.
Teresa.
When?
This morning.
Locked her up in one
of the empty classrooms.
Couldn't take the chance
she'd hurt one of us.
Daddy!
Lacey-girl.
Oh, my God.
- I thought you were--
- No, no.
I'm here.
We got to tell Walter.
If you think what's happening
to these people
is happening to you--
so, FBI, huh?
Where's the rest
of you?
Uh, they'll be
here soon.
We've been trapped
here for days.
Our whole damn town's
destroyed.
Our friends,
our families--
everyone's going crazy,
and the U.S. government
sends three people?
Look, I understand
that you have questions,
but all I can tell you
at the moment
is that help
will come.
Now, in the meantime,
we need to work together,
find out what's going on here,
and also
how to get out.
If I could examine
one of the victims,
we might get answers to what's
happening in this town.
I heard that one
of your party went insane.
May I see her?
Teresa.
You're the man
from the government.
You're here
about our air quality.
The air quality's
bad here, isn't it?
Hmm.
May I?
Hmm. Fascinating.
What is it, Walter?
I'll need to take
a blood sample.
The cook at the diner
had two irises in each eye.
Perhaps whatever
is afflicting these people
is creating some sort
of rapid mitosis,
causing the cells
to replicate exponentially,
duplicating body parts.
Mm.
I'm going to ask you
some questions, Teresa.
I should start supper.
Lee's going to be home soon.
H-her husband--
he passed six,
seven years ago.
So when
was the last time
you saw Lee, Teresa?
This morning.
I packed his lunch
before he went to work.
And what did you and Lee
talk about this morning?
Is this a joke?
Some sick joke?
Sorry?
My Lee's dead...
Seven years
this April.
I should start supper.
Lee's gonna be
home soon.
How did it go?
Did you get
the radio to work?
I couldn't get a signal.
Even if I had a generator
twice that size,
there's just too much
electromagnetic interference.
I think we're stuck here
for a while.
What's wrong?
That woman,
Teresa--
her husband died
seven years ago,
and yet she thinks she talked
to him this morning.
Let Walter test
your blood too.
It's the only way
you're gonna know for sure.
They're probably
just psychosomatic--
these things
you're feeling.
You were always very empathetic,
even as a child.
That's why you're such
a great investigator--
you ability to empathize
with the victims.
That's all this is.
A-and if it's something worse,
then we'll deal with it.
Well, I-I need to go
and examine this.
Well, I'm glad
you're here--
not just for me
but for him.
I've seen the way he's been
with you lately.
Before you got here,
he was kind of shut down
and isolated.
He's a lot like my Walter,
this one.
What's she like?
Pardon me?
The other Olivia.
I'm just curious.
I don't know,
she's, uh--
she's driven.
She's very,
very stubborn.
She doesn't like
to lose.
But she sees
the best in people,
even when they
don't see it themselves.
When she first found me,
I was in Baghdad
trying to run a scam on these
two Iranian businessmen.
I didn't picture you
as the scamming type.
That's what made me
so good at it.
Anyway, it was all supposed
to be temporary.
She told me I just had
to babysit Walter
while he was working
on a case for the FBI,
and then after it was done,
I could leave,
go back
to my own life--
despite, of course,
how gorgeous she is.
Well, you've got
good taste.
She gave me something
that I hadn't had since--
really since
my mom died.
She gave me...
A place to call home...
A place I'd want
to call home.
Eventually, we even had
our own thing.
A thing?
Yeah, a thing.
A routine, you know?
On Friday nights,
we'd get together.
We'd watch cheesy horror films
and order in from Damiano's.
You ever been?
No, but I've driven past
on my way home.
It's good.
You should check it out.
Well, she's lucky
to have you.
Oh, my God!
No!
What happened?
I don't know.
I just found her like this.
She got loose somehow.
I don't understand.
She was fine
when we got here.
I mean,
if it happened to her,
what's to say it's not gonna
happen to rest of us,
and why hasn't
anybody come?
We're all gonna be okay.
We just need to figure out
what's happening here
and find out
how to get out.
They shouldn't
even be here.
I'm sorry?
Last fall I was offered
a teaching job in Philadelphia.
Angela wanted me
to take it.
I convinced her
to stay.
I think deep down
I was scared to leave here.
This town is all
I've ever known.
If I had just taken that job,
my family would be safe now.
Maybe.
But you are here,
and if it weren't for you,
they might not
have made it this far.
Will Olivia Dunham and Peter Bishop
please report
to the biology lab at once?
Olivia and Peter
to the biology lab. Thank you.
Peter?
Olivia?
I think I've worked out
what's happened in this town.
When I examined
Teresa's blood,
I found 92 chromosomes
in her DNA.
Well, that's twice
the genetic material
that should appear
in any human being.
Okay, well,
how is that possible?
Belly and I once combined
a tiny portion of our Universe
with the alternate Universe
in a goldfish bowl
in our lab.
Besides...
What it did to the goldfish,
the effect on the physics
in the overlapping areas
was catastrophic.
Gravity,
electromagnetic fields--
Walter, what you're saying is
the two Universes
merged together somehow?
Yeah, I'm afraid I am.
Um...
These two circles...
Represent
the respective Universes.
And this overlap
is the town.
Now, for reasons
that I am yet to deduce,
our Westfield
has merged
with the Westfield
from the alternate Universe,
trapping the three of us
in the overlap.
Okay, well, how can
two universes merging
drive an entire town
insane?
Maybe the same thing
that's happening to the town
is happening
to the townspeople.
They're merging
with their doppelgangers.
Which would explain
why Teresa, uh,
thought her husband was alive
and dead at the same time.
I mean, can you imagine
being flooded with years
of experiences and memories
that were not your own?
The mind--
unable to distinguish
between what's real
and what is not.
Okay, well,
can it be reversed?
Sadly, no.
I am afraid
the damage is done.
So what are you saying,
Walter,
that Olivia's--
What?
No, Olivia's blood
was fine.
Did I fail
to mention that?
Yes, you left
that part out.
Oh, you're--
you're perfectly fine, dear.
Now, as with all of us,
it stands
to reason that Cliff
and the other people here
do not have doppelgangers
at present in the town
in the alternate Universe.
But Cliff said that
he turned down a job offer
in Philadelphia
last fall.
Right, but in the
alternate Universe,
he must've taken the job
and moved his family.
Hey, Walter, could any
of this happen naturally?
I-I-I-I don't see how.
When Belly and I merged just
a tiny portion of the universes,
the energy required
was tremendous.
I-I can't imagine
an energy source
that would merge
an entire town.
What about amphilocite?
Yes, that would do it.
You think that
David Robert Jones is involved?
I don't know, but maybe
that's why he was at the quarry.
Mining amphilocite,
to do this.
But why?
I mean, to what end?
Of course,
if my theory's correct,
it presents
a more pressing problem.
The effects
I have just described--
t-they are
just phase one.
What's phase two?
Agent Dunham,
you need to see this.
That...
is phase two.
Lacey, come on.
Come away
from there, honey.
Daddy,
what's happening?
It's gonna be okay.
Go with mommy.
I just don't know
what to do.
The two towns
have merged together.
They're creating an excess
of mass and energy
in the overlapping regions.
The fundamental forces
of physics are colliding--
out of balance,
destroying everything.
Well, isn't there anywhere
we'll be safe?
No.
Two things cannot occupy
the same space
without
dire consequences.
Both towns will be destroyed
and all of us with them.
There's nothing
we can do.
M-maybe you should go
and talk to him.
Me?
Well, I've seen
how you two are together,
and he seems
to respond to you.
Walter...
There must be something
we can do.
You said that the forces
of nature are colliding.
Do you think they could be
offset by opposite forces?
Yes, yes, yes,
yes, yes.
The sum of equal
and opposite vectors is--
is zero.
Very clever, Peter.
We need to find the place
where the opposite forces meet
and cancel out.
Like the eye
of the storm.
In a hurricane, the center
is said to be the safest spot.
And after this thing
is said and done,
it might be the only place
that survives.
Of course.
We need to find the true center
of the merger.
Okay, well, you do that.
I'm gonna get us a ride.
Come on.
Okay, we need to get
to a place
where we're gonna be safe
from the destruction.
- Where?
- We're working on it.
But we're gonna need vehicles
to transport us there.
Now, we know that the phenomenon
affects electronics,
so any fuel-injected engines
won't work.
We need older cars, uh, any
running models from the 1970s--
two, maybe three
to transport everyone safely.
I might have
a better idea.
We left town here.
And we entered
for the first time here.
And Cliff said the first
building to fall was the bank
here on river
and highway.
Right. So, in order
to find the bull's-eye...
Connect the points.
Divide in half.
Construct
the perpendicular bisectors.
And extend
to their intersection--
in the center here.
Cypress and Quimby.
We think the center's
gonna be right there.
"Cypress and Quimby."
That looks about four miles
from here.
If Peter's theory
is correct,
it will be the only thing left
standing when the town
collapses upon itself.
Need a ride?
It's okay.
Daddy won't let anything
happen to you. Go ahead.
Mommy.
Okay.
Where am I going?
Okay, uh,
Cypress and Quimby.
- Do you know that?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
There's a bike shop there.
Don't cry, dear.
We're going
to a safe place.
We'll be fine.
You'll see.
Peter!
Nice shot.
Okay,
is everyone all right?
I think we better
get moving.
Okay.
We did it.
Well, that's not moving!
Okay, everyone,
we're on foot from here!
Make sure
you stay together.
Come on, run!
Go, go, go!
That the last of them?
Yes.
Come on!
Daddy!
Let's go, let's go!
Everybody inside!
Walter, what are you doing?
Come on, get inside.
Peter.
Peter, you were right.
This is it.
This is the eye of the storm.
Great.
We'll be fine.
We--we'll be safe here.
Daddy, I'm scared.
So loud.
Understood.
Coordinate with C.O.C. and
keep me apprised of any changes.
Anything?
Search teams
just checked in.
They scanned
the entire area.
No other survivors.
- And it gets worse.
- How?
During the search, we found
several unusual devices.
We're not sure
how the technology works,
but they were placed around
the perimeter of the town.
David Robert Jones.
Hazmat detected trace amounts
of amphilocite.
What would David Robert Jones
have to gain
by destroying a town
that people didn't even
know was here to begin with?
I don't know.
But the amount of amphilocite
recovered from those devices
is only a fraction
of Jones' stockpile.
Sir, we've got
Director Norris.
Go home.
I can take it
from here.
Hey.
How is Lacey
holding up?
It's just a sprain.
She's fine.
She's strong.
And how are you?
My home...
everything
I've ever known--
how did they
just disappear?
I wish I knew.
Even if you did,
you probably wouldn't be
able to tell me, right?
The Bureau is gonna help you
with temporary housing
until you get back
on your feet.
Well, we have each other.
No matter what happens,
we'll face it together.
Beautiful.
See you tomorrow.
You're leaving?
But I-I've made crepes--
breakfast for dinner.
Second most important meal
of the day.
- I'm sorry, Walter.
- I didn't know.
- Will you take a rain check?
- Of course.
First thing tomorrow morning,
I promise.
And maybe by that time
Broyles will have allowed
us access
to the machine.
Oh, yes.
We can resume our efforts
to get you home.
Peter...
Good night.
Good night,
Walter.
Hey, come in.
Hey.
I hope you don't mind.
I was just in the neighborhood.
Thought I'd stop by
to see how you're feeling.
No, why would I?
I'm gonna pour you
a drink.
What is that
that smells so fantastic?
What do you mean?
It's Friday.
I ordered Famiano's.
W-whoa.
Olivia.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org